---
layout: post
title:  "Post04 Take remote input (Pull Request)"
date:   2021-10-04
categories: jekyll
---
## Team collaboration with Pull Request

So far, as the owner of this blog site, we have been working at local repo with confidence that the remote repo is just one command `git pog` away to be sync'ed up and published. What if we decide to add an assistant to help us review posts and give some feedbacks?

### A use case

We ask a friend Bob to do

- Simple access
  - create a github account
  - proof read [Post01]
  - Find any typo or grammer error
- Easy sharing
  - read [Github guides] to learn `Repo`, `Branch`, `Commit`, and `Pull Request`
  - go to source repo at [blogua10-gh-repo]
  - create a branch `post01bob`
  - go to _post/2021-09-28-post01.md and edit it
  - 

Say your teammate Bob read [Post01] and found a typo. Instead of calling you, he sends you a Pull Request (PR) about changes he pushed to a branch in a repository on GitHub. It is up to you, the owner, to decide when and how to act on it.

See [Github guides] to learn `Repo`, `Branch`, `Commit`, and `Pull Request`.

#### Find the remote repo

The remote repo is in [blogua10-gh-repo]. The post01 is in _post/. Bob is not the owner of the repo so he cannot edit the file in the gh-pages branch directly.

#### Create a Branch

Blogua10 repo has only one branch `gh-pages`. Bob will need to create a new branch, said `post01-bob`, to edit post01.md. The new branch has identical content as gh-pages, but not for long. In post01-bob branch, Bob can edit post01.md.

#### Make a Commit

After editing, hit `commit changes` button to save the changes. On GitHub, saved changes are called commits.
Now this branch contains content that is different from gh-pages.

#### Open a Pull Request

Quote from [Open a Pull Request]
```
Pull Requests are the heart of collaboration on GitHub. When you open a pull request, you’re proposing your changes and requesting that someone review and pull in your contribution and merge them into their branch. Pull requests show diffs, or differences, of the content from both branches. The changes, additions, and subtractions are shown in green and red.
```
At Github repo, select `Pull Request`, then clink `New Pull Request`
In the Example Comparisons box, select the branch `post01-bob` to compare with `gh-pages`
click the  green Create Pull Request button, give your pull request a title and write a brief description of your changes.

#### Merge Pull Request

#### Sync to local Repo

## Conclusion

Collaborations 

[Post01]: /jekyll/2021/09/28/post01.html
[blogua10-gh-repo]:   https://github.com/kuolai/blogua10
[Open a Pull Request]: https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/#pr
[Github guides]: https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/