---
layout: post
title:  "Post06 Code review on layouts and style"
date:   2021-10-06
categories: jekyll
---

## Code review

We are going to walk over a few files from Jekyll and Minima Theme to learn layouts (index.html) and style (main.css). In the process, we will introduce a template language [Jekyll Liquid]. It may sound intimidating, a template language, but worry not, just google around, it is simple and there are many tutorials and blogs. `Liquid` tells Jekyll how to render a page (content, style, and layouts). A .md file with `Front Matter` will be processed by Jekyll Liquid. We will also explore where Jekyll and Minima Theme source code are located at.

## Layouts with home page as an example

[minima theme] is Jekyll's default theme. Its repo is [here](https://github.com/jekyll/minima)

Let us use [Original home page w/one post] as an example. We want to know
 - Where does a browser go to display the home page, which is _site/index.html
 - How does Jekyll convert `index.md` to index.html, code review below
   - `layout: home` in index.md prompts Jekyll to read minima/_layouts/`home.html`
   - `layout: default` in home.html prompts Jekyll to read minima/_layouts/`default.html`
   - default.html has all basic elements of [a simple HTML document], code review below

### Code review on index.md
```
# index.md
---
Layout: home
---
```

Index.md is the landing page of our blog site. It comes with Jekyll. It has no content, only one line of [Front Matter]. It tells Jekyll to use `Layout: home`. Usually we change this file for own landing page. For this tutorial, we will stay simple and not modify it. 

### Code review on home.html
```
{% raw %}
# home.html
---
layout: default
---

<div class="home">
  {%- if page.title -%}
    <h1 class="page-heading">{{ page.title }}</h1>
  {%- endif -%}

  {{ content }}

  {%- if posts.size > 0 -%}
    {%- if page.list_title -%}
      <h2 class="post-list-heading">{{ page.list_title }}</h2>
    {%- endif -%}
    <ul class="post-list">
      {%- assign date_format = site.minima.date_format | default: "%b %-d, %Y" -%}
      {%- for post in posts -%}
      <li>
        <span class="post-meta">{{ post.date | date: date_format }}</span>
        <h3>
          <a class="post-link" href="{{ post.url | relative_url }}">
            {{ post.title | escape }}
          </a>
        </h3>
        {%- if site.show_excerpts -%}
          {{ post.excerpt }}
        {%- endif -%}
      </li>
      {%- endfor -%}
    </ul>

  {%- endif -%}

</div>
{% endraw %}
```
   - home.html also renders content, which is a heading `Posts` and a list of posts (only one in our simple example)


### Code review on default.html
```
{% raw %}
# default.html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ page.lang | default: site.lang | default: "en" }}">
  {%- include head.html -%}
  <body>
    {%- include header.html -%}
    <main class="page-content" aria-label="Content">
      <div class="wrapper">
        {{ content }}
      </div>
    </main>
    {%- include footer.html -%}
  </body>
</html>
{% endraw %}
```

Default.html has [Jekyll Liquid] tags. {% raw %}
 {%- include head.html -%} {% endraw %}
 means read _layouts/head.html and insert it here. The hyphen says do not insert extra line. Default.html define a page layout with
 - head.html, which is the title of the page
 - header.html, which is the navigation section
 - a main section, which renders content
 - footer.html, a footer

We can have many pages/posts in the blog site, as long as they specify `layout: default` in the `Front Matter`, they all will have the same layout.

## Style, just a single CSS file main.css

Let us admit it, HTML and CSS are easy to know the concept but hard to be proficient. Most platforms have default layout and style pre-made for newbies so their demo site will come out pretty. Jekyll is no exception, it hides `minima theme` in your `Ruby` `Gems` library. Having said that, Jekyll demystifies the process with a plain `_site/main.css` output file. It is a blessing for us to deal with just one CSS file.



 [Home Page]: /{{ baseurl }}/
 [Post01]: /jekyll/2021/09/28/post01.html
 [Post05]: /jekyll/2021/10/05/post05.html
 [minima theme]: https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/master/_layouts
 [Front Matter]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/
[Original home page w/one post]: https://kuolai.github.io/blogua08/
[Chrome DevTools]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/
[minima repo]: https://github.com/jekyll/minima
[A simple HTML document]: https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_intro.asp
[Jekyll Liquid]: https://blog.webjeda.com/jekyll-liquid/