---
layout: post
title:  "Post05 Take a look at Jekyll Minima theme"
date:   2021-10-05
categories: jekyll
---

## Where is Minima theme

Let us start with finding where `minima` theme is.
```
$ bundle info minima
  * minima (2.5.1)
	Summary: A beautiful, minimal theme for Jekyll.
	Homepage: https://github.com/jekyll/minima
	Path: /Users/kuolai/.rvm/gems/ruby-3.0.0/gems/minima-2.5.1
```
Let us find out where is our layout files.
```
$ ls -R _site
404.html	assets		index.html
about		feed.xml	jekyll

_site/about:
index.html

_site/assets:
main.css		main.css.map		minima-social-icons.svg
```
Let us do a code review (by walking through [minima repo]). Our starting point is index.md, our landing page.
```
# index.md
---
layout: home
---
```
This is it, a complete real index.md with just one line in `Front Matters`. It says go find home.html.

### _layouts/ and _includes/ in minima theme

which directs Jekyll/minima to _layouts/home.html 
```
# _layouts/home.html
{% raw %}
---
layout: default
---
<div class="home">
 <h1 class="page-heading">
  || content ||
# Show posts
 <h2 class="post-list-heading">
  <ul class="post-list">
   <h3><a class="post-link" href="|| post.url | relative_url ||">
{% endraw %}
```
Here I just extracted Front Matters and six lines. It says 
 - go find default.html
 - display page heading (i.e., Posts)
 - display whatever content is (which is null)
 - show a list of posts with heading (as link) only

Of course the above displays are together with CSS classes. Now let us check _layouts/default.html out.

```
# _layouts/default.html
<!DOCTYPE html>
{% raw %}
<html lang="{{ page.lang | default: site.lang | default: "en" }}">
  {%- include head.html -%}
  <body>
    {%- include header.html -%}
    <main class="page-content" aria-label="Content">
      <div class="wrapper">
        {{ content }}
      </div>
    </main>
    {%- include footer.html -%}
  </body>
</html>
{% endraw %}
```
This is the base layout with
 - head.html (under _includes/)
 - body with three sections
   - header.html (under _includes/)
   - content from home.html, which contains page-heading and post-list-heading
   - footer.html (under _includes/)
   
### Gotcha moment

[minima repo] does a good job explaining the contents of Minima theme. But the thread starts off with `index.md` with just one line of code (`layout: home`) is a `gotcha moment`. As a beginner, I tend to look for a file containing
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
```
as the starting point. The trick with two indirections, i.e., from index.md to home.html to default.html is a `gotcha moment`. Also, through {% raw %} `{{ content }}`  {% endraw %} [liquid doc] we can pass content from index.md, append content from home.html, and append content from default, pretty neat and pretty gotcha.

### _sass/ in minima theme

It is scary to do code review on `sass` or `less` or `scss` for beginners. Luckily, minima theme is simple and straightfoward with only four .scss files. see [minima repo] 

Our next big challange is to replace minima theme with taiwindcss, so we can add to our sites with features like
* mobile first
* navigation
* sidebar or TOC (Table of Content)
* maybe a little bit of PWA (Progressive Web App)

[minima repo]: https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/master/_layouts
