---
layout: post
title:  "Post02 Remote site has no layout"
date:   2021-09-28
categories: jekyll
---
## Handling 404 error status

There are hundreds of web design tutorials out there, free for us to explore. Jekyll is one of the platforms with simplify-things philosophy, good documents, good tutorials, and a focus goal: static blog sites. As a newbie, I tried all tutorials with fency platforms: Ruby on Rails, AngularJS, React, Javascript, Python, Djangle, and have learned quite a few jargons. The learning process is long and struggling, happy and sad. Happy as I learnt new things or I found a solution to an error with help from Google and StackOverflow. Sad as I got stucked with errors and could not find a solution in weeks.

Here is one of the sad errors that took me two months to come back and get a solution. The error shows different symptoms at different occasions.

### Gotcha moment

Coming from [Post01], our remote site has all content as the local site but no layout.
Enabling browser inspect mode (Command-Option-i) with `Network` tab, there are three errors reading
* http://localhost:4000/
* main.css
* minima-social-icons.svg

The error message: Failed to load resource: the server responded with a status of 404

You can see [the example error site] here.

### Fixing a remote bug from local repo

The bug is caused by missing `main.css`. Enabling browser inspect mode (Command-Option-i) with `Sources` tab, the `assets` subdir contains `main.css` but is not inside of our project root dir `blogua10`. We have two ways to apply the fix, change at remote repo then sync to local repo; or change at local repo then push to remote repo. We will do later one as we already know how to do `git push` in [Post01]. 

The fix is a one line change in _config.yml file.

`_config.yml`
```
baseurl: ""
```
needs to change to
```
baseurl: "blogua10"
```
##### Note: Either blogua10 or /blogua10 works

### Commit local repo and push to remote repo

$ git commit -am "update baseurl in _config.yml"

$ git push origin gh-pages

Wait for one minute for github to update its gh-pages update and there are no errors and Jekyll demo site with style shown.

### Verify the remote patch at local site, but FAILED. Another gotcha moment

Stop Jekyll server with Ctl-C and restart it. Browser at localhost:4000, and our local site has no style and with three errors. A bug fixed at remote site caused a new bug at local site!!!

A temporary patch is with local override command:

$ bundle exec jekyll serve --baseurl ""

### Conclusion

In order for remote sites to work on github gh-pages branch, _config.yml needs baseurl: "blogua10". However, for
a local site (localhost:4000) to work, baseurl needs to be empty (""). Since we want single source tree that is
identical locally and remotely, we keep baseurl: "blogua10" in _config.yml but use a terminal command to override it.

$ bundle exec jekyll serve --baseurl ""  # override baseurl 

Maybe I shall file an issue and have it fixed. 2021/09/30

[Post01]: /jekyll/2021/09/28/post01.html
[the example error site]: https://kuolai.gitgub.io/blogua07