---
layout: post
title:  "Post01 Operate a blog site with local repo and remote repo"
date:   2021-09-28
categories: jekyll
---

## Post01 Overview

We are going to operate a blog site by creating two repositories (repo's), a local repo and a remote repo. The local repo is for post writing and preview. The remote repo is to publish posts to the public. 
It is common to operate a blog site with two locations. A typical **use case** is the owner working on several posts (unfinished) locally, while subscribers read published posts from Internet.

From [Github Repo], a `repo` (repository) is usually used to organize a single project, e.g. a blog site. To make a project a repo, we use `git init` command. To convert a repo to a blog site, we choose `Jekyll` out of many tools/platforms as 
 - Jekyll is a simple, blog-aware, static site generator perfect for personal project. 
 - Jekyll is also used by Github to host your remote site from your Github repo.  (💡 two birds in one stone)

Most tutorials teach web development and deployment, this tutorial goes a step further and adds operations related use cases. For examples, 
 - we added in a test angle by comparing remote site against locat site
 - we added in a use case to fetch new edits from remote repo and sync to local repo (so called `merged pull request`)
 - Also, the choice of Github to host our web site saves us troubles at some common operations issues
   - picking a name of url
   - selecting a host platform and dealing with monthly/annual fee
   - load balancing and scaling

Now comes the technical part. We need a `local project/repo/server` and a `remote repo`. Notice the extra `local project` and `local server` that are not in remote site. It is because we need a project to host a web server at local site; while Github will host a remote server for us automatically. Sounds horrifying, hosting a server, worry not, just one jekyll command to learn.

This post [Post01] is created in [Markdown] format. You can see source code at [blogua10-gh-repo].

### Set up local project, repo and server

  $ `jekyll new blogua10`  # Start a new jekyll project called blogua10

  $ `cd blogua10`  

  $ `ls`  # Take a look at Jekyll project tree
```
404.html	Gemfile.lock	_posts		about.markdown
Gemfile		_config.yml	index.markdown
```

  $ `bundle add webrick`  # needed for Ruby version 3.0.0 or higher

  $ `bundle exec jekyll serve`  # Start local server

  $ `ls` # Show the tree again, _site/ is created by Jekyll, it contains content of our local blog site.
  ```
404.html	Gemfile.lock	_posts		about.markdown
Gemfile		_config.yml	_site		index.markdown
```

  Type `localhost:4000` in local browser and you shall see a Jekyll demo site

  $ `git status` # Take a look at the local repo
```
fatal: not a git repository
```

  We have a project tree but we have not connected it with git. Hence `git status` command shows error.

  $ `git init`  # Initialize the project tree as a git repo (This is our local repo) 

  $ `git status` # Ask agian, Git sees all files untracked
```
On branch master

No commits yet

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	.gitignore
	404.html
	Gemfile
	Gemfile.lock
	_config.yml
	_posts/
	about.markdown
	index.markdown
```

 `git init` creates a new file `.gitignore`. Edit it, add a line `_site` and save it. This tells Git to ignore (not track) any content under _site.

 $ `git add .`  # track all files

 $ `git commit -m "Initial commit"`  # Save all files to repo. On GitHub, saved changes are called commits.

 $ `git checkout -b gh-pages`  # Change the local branch name to gh-pages

 gh-pages branch has a special meaning in Github. We will use it in next section.

 $ `git status` # Verify the branch name is indeed gh-pages
```
On branch gh-pages
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```
 $ `git ls-tree --name-only HEAD` # git ls-tree is similar to `ls` with .gitignore effect
 ```
.gitignore
404.html
Gemfile
Gemfile.lock
_config.yml
_posts
about.markdown
index.markdown
```

### Set up remote repo and sync up with local repo

Create a repo with your browser at `github.com/new`. Name it `blogua10`. Leave everything empty. The address of our remote repo is at https://github.com/kuolai/blogua10.git.

 $ `git remote add origin https://github.com/kuolai/blogua10.git` # Connect to remote repo with a shorter name `origin`

 $ `git push origin gh-pages ` # push to remote repo at remote branch gh-pages (created automatically)

 This command sync up remote repo branch `origin/gh-pages` with local repo `gh-pages` branch. 
  - The `from local to remote` **use case** is we create new content in the local repo, committed (saved changes), and sync up to the remote (at the same branch name). There are two other use cases, 
  - The `from remote to local` **use case** means the remote branch moves faster and we need to `fetch` it back to the local repo
  - The `both modified` **use case** means both remote and local repo have changes and we need to `merge` them together then sync up. We will have another post for 'fetch` later.

 When we say sync up, we are actually sync up a remote `branch` with a local branch. Branching is the way to work on different versions of a repository at one time. 
 Why `gh-pages`? Can we use other branch name? Yes, we can name a branch with any name. However, the advantage of having a remote origin/gh-pages branch is that Github will automatically invoke Jekyll to generate a site and host it globally with no charge.

 Now browsing at `kuolai.github.io/blogua10`, you shall see a standard jekyll demo page.

### Check them out

Both sites have identical project tree and branch name, but look different. The local site looks prettier, while the remote site has no layout. You can see [site with no layout] here. See next post [Post02] for more explanations and fixes.


[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[Github Repo]: https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/#repository
[git]: https://github.com/git-guides/install-git
[markdown]: https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/
[site with no layout]: https://kuolai.github.io/blogua07/
[Post01]: /jekyll/2021/09/28/post01.html
[Post02]: /jekyll/2021/09/28/post02.html
[Github gh-pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[blogua10-gh-repo]:   https://github.com/kuolai/blogua10
