---
layout: post
title:  "Post04 A peek at Jekyll magic"
date:   2021-10-02
categories: jekyll
---

## Layout of a post

This post (and other posts too) you are reading at has three sections:
 * Header, at the top, serves as navigation. Intentionally unmodified as is in Jekyll demo.
 * Main section, where the content shows
 * Footer, Intentionally unmodified as is in Jekyll demo.

## A peek at Jekyll magic

When we start a local server with `bundle exec jekyll serve`, jekyll does
 - Find all .md files in root dir (index.md, about.md) and in _posts/ dir (Post0x.md)
 - [Front Matter] of each file will tell Jekyll how to convert .md to a .html file with a default style
 - All .html files are stored in _site/ or its subdir

### Code review on index.md
```
# index.md
---
Layout: home
---
```

Index.md is the landing page of our blog site. It comes with Jekyll. It is up to us to change it so we can have our own landing page. For this tutorial, we will stay simple and not modify it. It has no content, only one line of Front Matter. It tells Jekyll to use `home Layout`.

### Code review on Layout: home



## No HTML CSS JS (so far)

We have a [Home Page] with index to four posts created by us and a potential to unlimited posts.
It felt like a job only web developers can do, but we did not use HTML, CSS, Javascript; instead, we use Jekyll and makrdown:

 - Markdown syntax is easy to learn (learn by example). Jekyll turns .markdown (or .md) files to .html and .scss files for browsers to display.
 - Most posts are similar in layout and style, and Jekyll organizes them and put out an index in the home page.
 - The layout and font style is in `main.css` with source code called [minima theme] more at [Post05]

 [Home Page]: /{{ baseurl }}/
 [Post01]: /jekyll/2021/09/28/post01.html
 [Post05]: /jekyll/2021/10/05/post05.html
 [minima theme]: https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/master/_layouts
 [Front Matter]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/
