---
layout: post
title: "Post08 Understand Reactjs Class Components with Ruby"
date: 2022-08-05
categories: jekyll
---

### What are class based and function components in Reactjs

Class compinents are ES6 classes. They are more compplex than function components with

- constructors
- life-cycle methods
- render() function, and
- state(data) management

Function components are ES6 functions that

- must return a React element
- taked `props` as parameter if necessary

### An example: Reactjs Class Components

It is intimidating to learn React class components and its constructor with so many new vocabulary.

```
class Car extends React.Component {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.state = {color: "red"};
  }
  render() {
    return <h2>I am a Car!</h2>;
  }
}
```

Here the code says potentially there will be a few `cars` with their own `colors`; with complicate syntax.

### A Ruby example

But if you know Ruby, the code in Ruby will look like:

```
class Car << React.Component
  color = 'red'
  '<h2>I am a Car!</h2>'  ## Note JSX is not supported in Ruby
end
```

Here we define a class `Car` inherited from React.Component; define a class variable `color` with initial value "red";
and return a `JSX` string. For Ruby, it is a `beginner level` concept to learn `how to define a class` while leave `intermediate level` concepts like instance variables vs. class variable, variable scope, and `attr_accessor` in separate
sessions.

### What if we want green car (in Ruby)

```
class Car
  attr_accessor :color
  def initialize(color= 'red')
    @color = color
  end
  '<h2>I am a Car!</h2>'
end

greenCar = Car.new('green')
```

`initialize` and `att_accessor` in Ruby are relatives to constructor(), super(), this.state in Javascript.

### Understand Reactjs with Ruby

Ruby is a true object-oriented programming (OOP) language. In Ruby, everything is an object including primitive data types.
every object can be modified. Its terse syntax makes OOP learning easier.

Let us apply OOP concept in design. Say, a blog has many artitles. Each `Article` has a `title` and a `body`.

#### Model of MVC

```
$ rails generate model Article title:string body:text
```

Now we want to display all `articles`, we need a `class variable` `@articles` to store all articles.

```
@articles = Article.all
```

If we want to the 5th article, we need a class variable `@article` to store that article.

```
@article = Article.find(params[5])
```

#### Control of MVC

To put them together, we use a class `ArticlesController` to hold serveral `methods` and several `variables`.

```
class ArticlesVontroller
  def index
    @articles = Article.all
  end

  def show
    @article = Article.find(params[:id])
  end
end
```

#### View of MVC

To view the first article. app/views/articles/show.html.erb

```
<h1><%= @article.title %></h1>
<p> <%= @article.body %> </p>
```

This is the MVC model of RoR.

If you know Ruby, you get to know the concept of React.Component as a class and go on the learn other React parts.
like constructor(), super(), this.state, and render() later.
